Hey there, what's up and welcome to
today's episode of Build Your Tribe,
where we are going to be discussing the
Instagram strategies that might actually
be hurting your account's potential
growth or engagement in 2023.
Unfortunately, there are very little
credentials or qualifications to call
yourself an Instagram expert, and so
there's a lot of people out there who
claim to know a lot about social media,
who claim to have invented some sort of
strategy that is foolproof and works for
everyone. And many times these
strategies are actually fools gold. I
can't even begin to tell you the amount
of strategies, and I put that in air
quotes because I don't even know if I
should truly be calling them strategies,
but the amount of of these false
information, this false advice that I've
seen spread around the internet, often
times being told as a solution to how to
go viral, how to grow your following, or
how to build a business online, when in
reality these things not only are not
effective, but they also could actually
be hurting your Instagram account. And I
want to say that in some cases, these
strategies aren't necessarily
maliciously created, they're not always
deceptive, they're not always, you know,
bad from the start, but often times
they're just outdated. They're
strategies that were popular five, even
10 years ago, and they just don't work
as well anymore, but they're still being
taught and they're still being spread
around. Some of the strategies that I
share with you in today's episode might
surprise you. I hope that I can debunk
some myths and share some actual facts
with you about growing on Instagram. But
if one of the strategies that I share
today actually is working for you and
you are seeing results, that's great.
Feel free to ignore what I'm saying and
keep doing what works for you. The best
strategy is always going to be whatever
works for you, regardless of what
myself, my mom, or any other expert
says, do what works for you. Do what's
best for you and your account because
you might be that 0.1% who is the
exception to the rule or the general
recommendation. And so if that's you, by
all means don't let us stop you, keep
going with it. But, if things aren't
working, if you're not growing, if
you're not seeing views and engagement
in the way you feel like you deserve,
and you are using some of the strategies
that I'm about to explain and discuss in
today's episode, then you might want to
consider changing those strategies and
trying something new. And before we get
into the seven strategies that you
should avoid on Instagram in 2023, I
want to first say that there are some
obvious strategies that I hope we don't
even need to cover, things like follow
and unfollow, things like buying
followers, things like paying for
shout-outs. These sorts of strategies,
and again, I'm going to be using lots of
air quotes today, they're absolutely not
effective. They're very tacky, very
spammy, very inauthentic. You should
never be paying for engagement or
shout-outs or followers. You should
never be following people just so that
they follow you back and then you
unfollow them. You shouldn't be sending
out 300 cold, spammy direct messages
every single day asking if people are
interested in following you or in
joining your business. Those things have
never really been effective, and even in
the few instances where they are, they
are very inauthentic and very spammy.
So, I hope we don't have to go in-depth
onto those. But, with that being said,
let's hop into the first actual strategy
that is not effective and is something
that you should not be relying on for
your growth in 2023.
And that first strategy is chasing
trends or just recreating what everyone
else is creating. Now, I will say that
trends, lip syncs, trending audios,
template videos are a great way to dip
your toe in the water and get used to
creating content on Instagram. If you're
someone who's never posted a reel
before, or you struggle with camera
shyness and just being confident enough
to speak on camera, then recreating
trends, doing these lip syncs, they can
be a great way to get comfortable and to
practice the actual process of creating
reels. But, if your entire Instagram
strategy revolves around finding the
next trending audio, using it as quickly
as you can, and just consistently
pumping out lip sync after lip sync
after dancing and pointing at random
text on the screen, it's not going to be
very effective. At the beginning of
2022, this was an effective strategy.
You could post primarily trending audio
lip sync type of videos that were
popular, that were just recreations of
trends that other people had made, and
you could pretty reliably expect to do
well and to grow your account, but
things have changed. People have largely
become bored with this oversaturated
market of trending audios. In fact,
according to some of our recent studies,
four out of five people prefer original
content versus a recreation of even the
funniest, most viral trend. Also, one of
the most common ways to grow an
Instagram account, if you're an
Instagram coach like myself, is to post
trending audio alerts. And I don't want
to shame any Instagram creators or
Instagram coaches who grow in this way,
but there are a lot of Instagram coaches
who do nothing but post trending audio
alerts. Every other post, or even every
post they share on Instagram, is just
telling you, "Hey, this audio is about
to blow up. This audio is trending. You
need to use this audio." And I've even
done that occasionally myself in the
past. And while there is some merit,
there are some benefits to sharing these
sorts of things. They are a great way,
oftentimes, to share templates or
examples with your followers. In most
cases, sharing trending audio alerts is
going to help the person who's sharing
the alert way more than the person who's
actually going to be using the trending
audio. And that's why it's such a
popular way for Instagram growth coaches
and Instagram experts to grow, because
they can post a couple trending audios,
and then people freak out because they
think that they need to use this audio,
and they need to rewatch the video to
learn the template, and then they use
the audio and they post it, and by that
point, they're the 40,000th person to
use this audio. They're not original
anymore. It's not even necessarily a new
trend. It's something that's
oversaturated. It's been done so much
that people are kind of bored with it.
And ultimately, it's just helping that
original content creator, the original
Instagram expert, grow and reach more
people rather than actually serve more
people or rather than even help the
people who they are trying to serve. So,
not to go too much on a tangent, and
again, I'm not trying to throw shade at
any content creator who does share
trending audio alerts, but I'm not the
biggest fan of trending audio alerts.
I'm not the biggest fan of content
creators and teachers who simply do
nothing but sharing these trending audio
alerts. They're just not very effective
or helpful for the actual followers, the
audience, and they're mainly
self-serving for the actual content
creator. So, I'm not the biggest fan,
but I also can tell you this in general.
If you're someone who's just chasing
trends, trying to figure out what audio
is going to blow up next and you can use
it before anyone else, it's probably not
going to be that effective of a
strategy. It also lacks personality, it
lacks originality, it lacks the actual
you that people follow you for. So, I
wouldn't recommend simply only reusing
trending audios on your Instagram. The
second growth strategy that is no longer
as effective in 2023 as it was in the
past, and this one is going to upset
some people, is hashtags. And I'm going
to specifically say relying on hashtags
as a central strategy or a core pillar
of your growth and your reach or your
engagement. Now, hashtags can still be
effective. We've talked about this many
times on Build Your Tribe. Hashtags can
definitely still help you reach new
people, and in some niche markets,
they're extremely effective. If you're
someone who relies on a local audience,
like let's say you are a
brick-and-mortar business, you're
someone with a physical location and you
need people within your physical
proximity to actually come in to become
customers, well, then hashtags in your
case are going to be more helpful and
more beneficial than someone who's
trying to reach a more general, more
broad, more diverse audience in terms of
geographic location. Hashtags in 2016
and 2017 were awesome because they were
a tool that not everyone had capitalized
on yet, a tool that not everyone had
figured out yet, and they were a tool
that was heavily relied upon by
Instagram. And this is one of the
biggest changes that has made hashtags
less effective. Hashtags used to be one
of the only ways that Instagram could
categorize your content, and that's what
hashtags existed for. Hashtags were a
way that you could tell Instagram, here
is what my content is about.
#fitnessgoals
put your content within the category of
fitness goals. #beginnerrockclimber
tips put your post within the category
of beginner rock climber tips. But now,
as the artificial intelligence and as
these algorithms continue to evolve, as
the machine learning continues to
progress and get smarter and more
intelligent, Instagram can tell what
your post is about based off of so many
other factors besides just the hashtags
you add. So, that means Instagram
doesn't have to rely on hashtags as much
anymore, and so hashtags are no longer
as effective of a strategy to reach new
people. I do know that there are plenty
of people who continue to grow and reach
new people with hashtags every single
day, and in most cases hashtags are not
going to hurt your account. If you're
using general hashtags that aren't
banned, that are somewhat specific to
your niche, you're probably not going to
hurt your account. But, the one word of
caution that I do want to give, and my
beef with hashtags, if I can be so bold
as to say that, is that I think too many
people stress too much about hashtags. I
think too many people focus and spend
too much of their time worrying about
hashtags. They're spending hours and
maybe even money on expensive apps and
services and coaches to find this
magical list of perfect hashtags, when
in reality, the hashtags can't make up
for bad content. If your content isn't
highly engaging and captivating, if your
followers don't already like your
content and enjoy what you post, then
slapping some hashtags on it is like
putting lipstick on a pig. It's just not
going to make a very big difference, and
it's kind of a waste of time. The third
strategy that might be hurting your
Instagram account more than it's helping
your Instagram account is giveaways.
Now, there's a right way and a wrong way
to do giveaways, and this is another
thing, another topic that we've done an
entire Build Your Tribe episode on, but
giveaways, when done right, can be a
great way to reach new people, to grow
engagement, and even to build your email
list. But, giveaways done purely for the
sake of growing your following are most
likely going to be hurting your account.
Because let's walk through what would
happen there. You make a post announcing
a new giveaway for an iPhone 14, and all
people have to do to be entered to win
is follow you and tag three friends.
Sounds great, right? Your post has a
bunch of comments tagging new people,
and you have a sudden spike of new
followers.
But then, a few days later, the
giveaway's over, you announce the one
winner, and what happens? One of three
things is going to happen next. Either,
the most likely option, which is that
people are going to unfollow you,
because they only followed you to win
the giveaway, and now that they know
they haven't won, they're not going to
continue following you. The second
option is that they are going to
continue following you because they
didn't see the giveaway announcement, or
they don't really care to take the time
to unfollow you, but they don't really
care about your posts. They're not
interested in your niche, because again,
they only followed you to win the
giveaway. They're not actually engaged
followers. They're not actually
interested in what you have to say. They
were just interested in winning the
giveaway. And that might even be the
worst option, because they're still
following you, but they're not engaging.
So, they're hurting your engagement
rate. And then the third option, which
is probably the least likely option when
you do this style of giveaway, is that
the person is going to continue to
follow you, and not only continue to
follow you, but they're a new, active,
engaged follower. That's definitely
going to be the minority of people when
you're doing these follow-for-giveaways.
The next Instagram strategy that might
be hurting your account in 2023 is low
frequency or inconsistency. Now, I
wouldn't call inconsistency necessarily
a strategy or anything that's really
taught because I don't think there's
anyone out there who's preaching that
you need to post randomly and just kind
of take long breaks and just be
inconsistent. I don't think there's
anyone teaching that. I think we all
understand that there's some amount of
consistency involved in success, but
there is a fair amount of people who
argue on behalf of you should post less
and instead focus on only sharing
quality posts. And here's my distinction
in that argument and here's where I
stand. I definitely believe that you
should be sharing quality post.
Absolutely, without a doubt, your posts
should be of a certain level of quality.
But, I don't think you necessarily need
to stress yourself out or overwhelm
yourself with having to post A+ level
posts every time. Plus, who even really
knows what an A+ post is? Often times,
when we create something that we think
is an A+ post, we post it and it does
worse than anything else that we've
posted. Or, we make something that we
think is just all right and we just kind
of whip it together and it does well. It
performs as if it is an A+ post. So, my
argument is that you should focus
instead on the consistency and on the
quantity. And instead of thinking of it
as every single post needs to be a slam
dunk, a home run, a perfect post, an A+.
Instead, every single post is just an
opportunity for practice. It's an
opportunity for progress, for getting a
little bit better, for refining your
craft so that eventually one day you can
quickly, easily, and efficiently, and
reliably make great posts. But, when
you're first getting started and when
you're first trying to grow on social
media, it really is a numbers game. And
so, I understand that we all have
different seasons of life, we all have
different amounts of availability, and
different levels of consistency that we
can sustain. But, no matter who you are,
I think that consistency is key and I
think that we should all challenge
ourselves to get a little bit more
consistent, to increase our frequency
just a little bit, and up that number,
dial up that frequency so that you can
post a little bit more. Because, like I
just said, at the end of the day, social
media is a numbers game, and if you are
posting more than your competition or
more than anyone else on Instagram, your
posts are going to get seen more, which
is more opportunities for engagement and
growth and sales. And of course, one of
the things I'm best known for on
Instagram is my hyper-consistency. I've
been averaging over 2 and 1/2 posts per
day for the last 2 years or so, and so
that's kind of become my thing, but I
recently did a test where I dialed it
back. I went from posting, like I said,
2 and 1/2 feed posts per day to less
than one per day. I was doing about one
every other day. I was doing this as a
test to see what would happen if you
decrease your frequency. What would
happen if you start posting less? Does
that mean that the algorithm is going to
show your post to more people? Does that
mean that your posts are now not having
to compete with each other and they're
able to reach a larger audience? Well,
that's not exactly what I found. My
engagement rate and my total reach
stayed almost the exact same during the
period where I was posting less compared
to the period where I was posting at a
super consistent and high frequency. And
that number was even skewed a little bit
because my last post before I started
the experiment, so the last post I made
before I decreased my frequency, it
ended up doing really well and pretty
much went viral. It didn't quite reach a
million people, which is my personal
definition of viral for me, but it did
reach a couple hundred thousand people.
It did better than my average post, and
so that skewed the numbers of what my
actual engagement and reach was during
the period of low frequency. And so, if
you were to take that post out of the
equation, my total reach and my average
engagement during this period of low
frequency would actually probably be
slightly lower than before. And the
biggest distinction that I found during
this period of lower frequency is that
my number of followers was cut in half.
Now, I don't mean to say that I went
from 600,000 to 300,000, but rather my
rate of new followers gained. So, during
the period during the 2 weeks leading up
to this experiment, I had grown by about
5,000 followers. And during the 2 weeks
of this experiment where I decreased my
frequency, I grew by about 2,800
followers, which was much lower than any
other 2-week period in the last year.
And so that shows me, that confirms to
me that consistency is key. And the more
frequently you can post on Instagram,
the more you are going to grow on
Instagram. The fifth strategy that might
be hurting your Instagram account in
2023 is the five pillars rule or JK5. It
has many different names and many
different number of pillars, but
basically it's this idea that you have
multiple, a wide variety, often times
five is the number that these people
come up with, these experts come up
with. Five different kinds of posts or
five different topics. And I'm not
saying they're five different related
topics like Instagram hashtags,
Instagram Reels, Instagram Stories,
Instagram strategies. Like those would
be five related topics within a niche.
Instead, this strategy of having five
content pillars or they're sometimes
called content buckets is about having
completely different kinds of content.
So one of your pillars is family
content, one is faith-related content,
one is fitness-related content, one is
business-related content. And
unfortunately, what this creates is
confusion amongst your followers. Now, I
know you have many interests and
passions and hobbies and there's, you
know, multi-facets to you as a human
being. You're totally unique. I
understand all that. We're all unique in
that way. We all have our different
things that we're into and different
passions and hobbies. Share those things
on your Instagram Stories. On your
Instagram Stories talk about anything
and everything. Let your freak flag fly.
Share about all those interest, passion,
share about your family, your lifestyle,
your faith, your business, all of that
on your Instagram Stories because your
Instagram Stories viewers are people who
have already chosen to follow you. They
have already made that investment by
pressing the follow button and they want
to now learn more. They want to learn
what makes you tick, what makes you you.
So show those things on your Instagram
Stories. But but you share those things
on your Instagram feed, you split up
your audience because your followers are
probably following you for one reason.
They're following you because they want
to be a part of your community. They
want to
learn more about your niche, whatever it
is that you're posting about on
Instagram. Let's take myself for
example. My niche on Instagram is
organic Instagram growth strategy. So,
I'm sharing tips to help other people
grow on Instagram. If I started posting
about snowboarding on my feed, well,
then the vast majority of my followers
would have no interest. They wouldn't
care. And so, they wouldn't really
engage with that post. Even if from the
start that was one of my strategies.
Let's say I got started on Instagram and
I was like, I'm going to post about
snowboarding and my family and my dogs
and Instagram strategies. Well,
inevitably there's going to be people
who follow me just for the Instagram
strategies, but they don't really care
about my dogs. Or they like snowboarding
and they like my dogs, but they don't
really care about the Instagram
strategies. And then every time I post,
I'm essentially eliminating different
portions of my audience from the table,
from the even possibility that they're
going to engage because they're not
interested in those things. And so,
that's why I'm not a fan of having
multiple pillars or buckets or different
groups of posts that you make on
Instagram. Instead, there should just be
one. It should be your niche. In my
opinion, all of your feed posts, which
are your photos, your carousels, and
your reels should be related to that
niche. They should all be related to
that topic or subcategory of interest
that you're going to be focused on on
Instagram. The sixth Instagram strategy
that might be hurting your account in
2023 is focusing on creating valuable
content. Now, listen. Valuable content
has its place. Sharing educational tips,
helpful reminders, useful life hacks,
those things are great. But
unfortunately, sharing only content that
is valuable isn't going to grow a very
sustainable business or account. And the
reason for this is that the primary way
that people engage with valuable content
is by simply saving it. And
unfortunately, while saves do have a
purpose and they are a useful form of
engagement, they don't necessarily
directly lead to more followers or more
viewers the way something like a share
would. So, instead, my recommendation is
to focus on creating share-worthy
content. And oftentimes, a valuable tip
or educational life hack isn't something
that people share with each other or
share to their stories. It's instead
something that they just save for
themselves. And if you are focusing on
valuable content, you need to make sure
that it's edutainment, educational
entertainment. If it's purely education,
it might get skipped or get drowned out
because it's boring. Let's be honest,
there are bookshelves and libraries
filled with valuable textbooks, with
great knowledge and tons of practical,
useful information that maybe took
decades or hundreds of years to
culminate and be put into this beautiful
textbook, but at the end of the day, if
all that textbook is is valuable,
unfortunately, a lot of people aren't
going to read it. Because people in
today's society, in the world we live
in, they want to be entertained. They
want to be captivated. They want to be
inspired, motivated, or moved. They want
to laugh. They want to have their
emotions pulled in different directions.
They don't just want to learn things.
And I know there are people who want to
learn things, and there are people who
read textbooks, and there are people who
enjoy valuable content. So, you can
share valuable content from time to
time. But if your only Instagram
strategy is sharing content that is
valuable, then unfortunately, it's going
to be tough for you to grow. And then
the seventh strategy that is hurting
your Instagram account in 2023 is
focusing on the algorithm. Instead, you
should be focused on your audience.
Ultimately, it's the audience that
dictates the algorithm. The algorithm is
driven by your audience's engagement. I
know oftentimes the algorithm feels
confusing and overwhelming, and people
are always telling you that it's
changing. But in reality, the algorithm
is just a reflection of people's
interests. If people are interested in
your post, if they find it captivating
and engaging, and they interact with
your content, then your post will be
shown to more more
If your content, however, isn't
engaging, if people aren't enjoying
watching it, then the algorithm isn't
going to show it to more people. Because
if they did, then people are going to
continue to not be engaged and continue
to spend less time on Instagram because
of your post, which means that Instagram
as a business can't sell more ads and
make more money. Instagram makes its
money based off of all of us spending
more time on Instagram. And so if your
content is making people spend more time
on Instagram and is making people
interact and engage with Instagram more,
then the algorithm will show your post
to more people. That's a good business
model by Instagram. That's how it works.
And so instead of focusing on the
algorithm and trying to make it happy or
figure out what the latest changes are,
instead, your focus should be on your
audience, on your followers. What do
they respond well to? What do they like?
What do they dislike? What is the most
engaging kind of content for your
followers? What do they specifically
like? And it's going to be different for
your followers versus my followers or
anyone else because we all have
different audiences coming to us at
different times, for different topics,
for different things, for different
ideas. So instead of focusing on the
algorithm, focus on your audience. I
hope you found today's episode helpful
and educational. If you did, don't
forget to press that like button on
YouTube. And no matter where you're
watching or listening to this, make sure
to hit the subscribe button so you can
get more educational strategies and
helpful tips for growing a business and
social media following. And until next
time, and as always, happy networking.